source/command-monitoring/tests/README.rst, before:

.. role:: javascript(code)
  :language: javascript

==================
Command Monitoring
==================

.. contents::

--------

Testing
=======

Tests are provided in YML and JSON format to assert proper upconversion of commands.

Database and Collection Names
-----------------------------

The collection under test is specified in each test file with the fields
``database_name`` and ``collection_name``.

Data
----

The ``data`` at the beginning of each test file is the data that should exist in the
collection under test before each test run.

Expectations
------------

Fake Placeholder Values
```````````````````````

When an attribute in an expectation contains the value ``"42"``, ``42`` or ``""``, this is a fake
placeholder value indicating that a special case MUST be tested that could not be
expressed in a YAML or JSON test. These cases are as follows:

Cursor Matching
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When encountering a ``cursor`` or ``getMore`` value of ``"42"`` in a test, the driver MUST assert
that the values are equal to each other and greater than zero.

Errors
^^^^^^

For write errors, ``code`` values of ``42`` MUST assert that the value is present and
greater than zero. ``errmsg`` values of ``""`` MUST assert that the value is not empty
(a string of length greater than 1).

OK Values
^^^^^^^^^

The server is inconsistent on whether the ok values returned are integers or doubles so
for simplicity the tests specify all expected values as doubles. Server 'ok' values of
integers MUST be converted to doubles for comparison with the expected values.

Additional Values
`````````````````

The expected events provide the minimum data that is required and can be tested. It is
possible for more values to be present in the events, such as extra data provided when
using sharded clusters or ``nModified`` field in updates. The driver MUST assert the
expected data is present and also MUST allow for additional data to be present as well
at the top level of the command document or reply document.

For example, say the client sends a causally-consistent "distinct" command with
readConcern level "majority", like::

  {
    "distinct": "collection",
    "key": "key",
    "readConcern":{
      "afterClusterTime": {"$timestamp":{"t":1522336030,"i":1}},
      "level":"majority"
    },
    "$clusterTime": {
      "clusterTime": { "$timestamp": { "i": 1, "t": 1522335530 } },
      "signature": {
        "hash": { "$binary": "AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA=", "$type": "00" },
        "keyId": { "$numberLong": "0" }
      }
    },
    "lsid": {
      "id": { "$binary": "RaigP3oASqu+galPvRAfcg==", "$type": "04" }
    }
  }

Then it would pass a command-started event like the following YAML, because the
fields not mentioned in the YAML are ignored::

  command:
    distinct: collection
    key: key

However, if there are fields in command subdocuments that are not mentioned in
the YAML, then the command does *not* pass the test::

  command:
    distinct: collection
    key: key
    # Fails because the expected readConcern has no "afterClusterTime".
    readConcern:
      level: majority

Ignoring Tests Based On Server Version
``````````````````````````````````````

Due to variations in server behaviour, some tests may not be valid on a specific range
of server versions and MUST NOT be run. These tests are indicated with the fields
``ignore_if_server_version_greater_than`` and ``ignore_if_server_version_less_than`` which
are optionally provided at the description level of the test. When determining if the test
must be run or not, use only the minor server version.

Example:

If ``ignore_if_server_version_greater_than`` is ``3.0``, then the tests MUST NOT run on
``3.1`` and higher, but MUST run on ``3.0.3``.

Tests which do not have either one of these fields MUST run on all supported server
versions.

Commit message:

Revise docs for server version and topology requirements
This adds documentation for the ignore_if_topology_type field.

source/command-monitoring/tests/README.rst, after:

.. role:: javascript(code)
  :language: javascript

==================
Command Monitoring
==================

.. contents::

--------

Testing
=======

Tests are provided in YML and JSON format to assert proper upconversion of commands.

Database and Collection Names
-----------------------------

The collection under test is specified in each test file with the fields
``database_name`` and ``collection_name``.

Data
----

The ``data`` at the beginning of each test file is the data that should exist in the
collection under test before each test run.

Expectations
------------

Fake Placeholder Values
```````````````````````

When an attribute in an expectation contains the value ``"42"``, ``42`` or ``""``, this is a fake
placeholder value indicating that a special case MUST be tested that could not be
expressed in a YAML or JSON test. These cases are as follows:

Cursor Matching
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When encountering a ``cursor`` or ``getMore`` value of ``"42"`` in a test, the driver MUST assert
that the values are equal to each other and greater than zero.

Errors
^^^^^^

For write errors, ``code`` values of ``42`` MUST assert that the value is present and
greater than zero. ``errmsg`` values of ``""`` MUST assert that the value is not empty
(a string of length greater than 1).

OK Values
^^^^^^^^^

The server is inconsistent on whether the ok values returned are integers or doubles so
for simplicity the tests specify all expected values as doubles. Server 'ok' values of
integers MUST be converted to doubles for comparison with the expected values.

Additional Values
`````````````````

The expected events provide the minimum data that is required and can be tested. It is
possible for more values to be present in the events, such as extra data provided when
using sharded clusters or ``nModified`` field in updates. The driver MUST assert the
expected data is present and also MUST allow for additional data to be present as well
at the top level of the command document or reply document.

For example, say the client sends a causally-consistent "distinct" command with
readConcern level "majority", like::

  {
    "distinct": "collection",
    "key": "key",
    "readConcern":{
      "afterClusterTime": {"$timestamp":{"t":1522336030,"i":1}},
      "level":"majority"
    },
    "$clusterTime": {
      "clusterTime": { "$timestamp": { "i": 1, "t": 1522335530 } },
      "signature": {
        "hash": { "$binary": "AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA=", "$type": "00" },
        "keyId": { "$numberLong": "0" }
      }
    },
    "lsid": {
      "id": { "$binary": "RaigP3oASqu+galPvRAfcg==", "$type": "04" }
    }
  }

Then it would pass a command-started event like the following YAML, because the
fields not mentioned in the YAML are ignored::

  command:
    distinct: collection
    key: key

However, if there are fields in command subdocuments that are not mentioned in
the YAML, then the command does *not* pass the test::

  command:
    distinct: collection
    key: key
    # Fails because the expected readConcern has no "afterClusterTime".
    readConcern:
      level: majority

Ignoring Tests Based On Server Version or Topology Type
```````````````````````````````````````````````````````

Due to variations in server behaviour, some tests may not be valid and MUST NOT be run on
a range of server versions or for certain topology types. These tests are indicated with
any of the following fields, which will be optionally provided at the description level of
each test (i.e. document within the ``tests`` array):

- ``ignore_if_server_version_greater_than`` (optional): If specified, the test MUST be
  skipped if the minor version of the server is greater than this minor version. The
  server's patch version MUST NOT be considered. For example, a value of ``3.0`` implies
  that the test can run on server version ``3.0.15`` but not ``3.1.0``.

- ``ignore_if_server_version_less_than`` (optional): If specified, the test MUST be
  skipped if the minor version of the server is less than this minor version. The
  server's patch version MUST NOT be considered. For example, a value of ``3.2`` implies
  that the test can run on server version ``3.2.0`` but not ``3.0.15``.

- ``ignore_if_topology_type`` (optional): An array of server topologies for which the test
  MUST be skipped. Valid topologies are "single", "replicaset", and "sharded".

Tests that have none of these fields MUST be run on all supported server versions.
